Gerardo Rojas
IS : 117

Lynda.com video tutorial : Web Design Fundamentals

Certificate Number : 349DD1F527C648CCA77CE6F9576C198D

Course Overview

The videos on lesson 1 titled Web Design Fundamentals covered a variety of
topics relating to the basic dos and don'ts of Web Design. The tutorials
covered the design of a site starting from the Home Page and ending with how to
properly balance content and advertisement on your site. The part on the Home
Page explained how the information presented to the visitor should clearly sum
up what the site is about. For example, the videos place great emphasis on
having a clear call to action, along with the most important and valuable
information.

The video also covered Category and Landing pages. Category pages divide your
site into manageable sections with varying topics. These are summary pages
providing basic information about a certain category and providing links to
deeper and more detailed content. In e-commerce sites for example, each
category page would display a specific group of products, such as "shirts" or 
"pants". Landing pages on the other hand have a singular focus. Generally,
these pages work as ads with a clear call to action link.

Another topic discussed on the video was Detail & Product pages, where your
visitors will go in order to obtain in-depth information about your products
and services. The recurring theme of this portion of the lecture was "keep it
simple and factual". The author placed allot of emphasis on maintaining the
information factual, so that customers or visitors never felt like the content
was over-hyped. Maintaining the information simple was also an important topic
discussed in this section. Over-complex content can intimidate and deter
visitors.

Finally, the video covered Forms, and how to set them up so that your visitor
has the easiest possible time filling out the required information. An
important point made in this section was "asking the right question at the
right time". Additionally, the author also mentions that it is important to be
as descriptive as possible when requesting information from your visitor. For
example, if the form is asking for the customer's first and last name, it
should have a "First" and "Last Name" fields separated, rather than having one
large field labeled "Name". Another important point made on this section was
eliminating "reset" buttons on forms, as these tend to be clicked accidentally
and end up frustrating the visitor more than they help.

